[Music]
hey how's it going Dave 2d here so
NVIDIA recently announced their geforce
RTX line of some hardware for desktop
gaming that looks honestly quite
interesting but I wanted to talk about
how that whole GeForce r-tx lineup
translates into hardware for laptops and
where do we begin
okay let's kind of talk about
performance first normally at any kind
of like announcement of hardware
especially with Nvidia they will kind of
showcase the new hardware and then
compared to the old hardware and give
you some really hard facts like you know
it's eight percent better ten percent
better
20 percent better whatever it is it's
usually a snoozefest but by the end of
the presentation the audience kind of
says hey I have a general understanding
of how much better the new product is
compared to the old product but they
didn't do that this year because GeForce
RDX is kind of a it's a different beast
it's kind of like a conceptualization of
what gaming hardware is instead of kind
of using teraflops and measuring it
through that kind of like traditional
measurement they're using a new type of
metric that focuses on ray tracing
capabilities and it's something that the
older generation of cards like the 10
series or earlier or just terrible at so
it's no surprise that the RT x-series is
so much better at this particular metric
but if you look at the actual utility of
RT X like if you look at the actual
usability of ray tracing and all of the
kind of cool stuff that comes with it
it's it's not for now it's for the
future and if you look at games like
right now I don't think it'll be as
substantial as we might hope because
yeah you're getting more CUDA cores
you're getting more efficient Hardware
you're getting faster ramp but the
marketing math just doesn't check out
that performance bump that they're
claiming is really catered towards ray
tracing operations which is great and
everything but in 2018 and even 2019
that's not the real metric that I think
we should be looking at when it comes to
gaming performance so when it comes to
laptops yeah arch X is gonna be nice but
I don't think would be like it's not
gonna be a massive jump that's that's
what I'm saying the other thing I want
to talk about is wattage so if you look
at the numbers RTX GPUs draw a lot of
wattage that 20 80 is pulling
215 watts which is quite a bit more than
last year's 1080 and when you shrink it
down until like a laptop version or even
a max-q version you're gonna have a
tough time cooling something like that
even in a thick boy like this so
realistically speaking we're looking at
the 20 60 s or the 2050s people to fit
into like a more traditional gaming
laptop chassis those probably won't come
out until the very end of this year or
maybe early 2019 now the last I want to
talk about is just kind of the direction
of this whole r-tx hardware so in the
laptop industry I said this last year
the whole shift of mobile gaming has
been towards like faster and smoother
screens and like we saw this year more
laptop companies are pointing 120 Hertz
screens 144 hurt screens into their
devices even entry level gaming laptops
have faster screens than they did a
couple years ago which is great but this
whole r-tx stuff is focused on image
quality they're so focused on like that
hyper realistic look which is awesome
like I appreciate what they're going for
but in this current generation of mobile
hardware
it doesn't fit that flow of hardware
like we're looking at demos with
incredible visuals but you take a huge
hit on frame rate so we tilt to hit that
real time rate race look we're talking
60 frames per second 1080p which is
still really impressive but it just
isn't how I play my games right now
right now if you have good hardware I
like to go for high frame rate really
smooth visuals and not worry so much
about image quality because when you're
playing you're just like focused on the
elías for the games that I play so I
don't know
RTX is cool and I think in the future
it's gonna be like really really cool
the whole rate racing stuff and that
developers pick up on it but right now
if you're looking at a gaming laptop
RTX is neat but it's not that neat okay
overall thoughts if you're interested in
buying a laptop right now in fall of
2018 or kind of late 2018 I say go for
it you don't do wait for RTX I don't
think that enough games will take
advantage of the whole rate racing stuff
and also don't think that the
performance bump from the 10 series to
the kind of r-tx 20 series will be that
big especially in laptops but yeah
especially especially because there's so
many sales right now and videos trying
to kind of push their 10 series Hardware
off the shelves and you're getting
better pricing and stuff I'll link some
below but because of
back-to-school sales and some newly
announced hardware you get some really
good pricing on some powerful laptops
okay hope you guys enjoyed this video
thumbs if you liked it
subs who you loved it see you guys next
time